talks.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: 🎙 Talks
permalink: /talks/
---

I enjoy talking about Open Source.

You can see the slides for my talks on [Speaker Deck](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta).

| Title | Where | Date | Resources |
|-------|-------|------|-------|
| Journey as a Google Summer of Code student with Systers | [Systers TechTalks](http://www.cvent.com/events/systers-techtalks-journey-as-a-google-summer-of-code-student/event-summary-87be2bd07b694fc6ac41a63045b297b6.aspx) | 7 Mar '19 | [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/journey-as-a-google-summer-of-code-student-with-systers) |
| Teach yourself programming | [AnitaB.org Community Webinar](https://community.anitab.org/event/anitab-org-community-webinar-teach-yourself-programming/) | 24 Feb '19 | --- |
| Doing Open Source as a Contributor and a Maintainer | [GDG Porto DevFest](https://devfest.gdgporto.xyz/) | 26 Jan '19 | [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/doing-open-source-as-a-contributor-and-maintainer) |
| Getting Started with Open Source | [GDG Lisbon meetup](https://www.meetup.com/gdglisbon/events/254345727/) | 20 Sep '18 | [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/getting-started-with-open-source) |
| Google Summer of Code Final Demo (Mentorship System) | Systers Youtube Live | 12 Aug '18 | [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xRZrdR47R-w) / [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/mentorship-system-gsoc-2018) |

Commit message:

Added description for each talk I made - fixes #10

talks.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: 🎙 Talks
permalink: /talks/
---

I enjoy talking about Open Source.

You can see the slides for my talks on [Speaker Deck](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta).

| Title | Where | Date | Resources |
|-------|-------|------|-------|
| Journey as a Google Summer of Code student with Systers | [Systers TechTalks](http://www.cvent.com/events/systers-techtalks-journey-as-a-google-summer-of-code-student/event-summary-87be2bd07b694fc6ac41a63045b297b6.aspx) | 7 Mar '19 | [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/journey-as-a-google-summer-of-code-student-with-systers) |
| Teach yourself programming | [AnitaB.org Community Webinar](https://community.anitab.org/event/anitab-org-community-webinar-teach-yourself-programming/) | 24 Feb '19 | --- |
| Doing Open Source as a Contributor and a Maintainer | [GDG Porto DevFest](https://devfest.gdgporto.xyz/) | 26 Jan '19 | [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/doing-open-source-as-a-contributor-and-maintainer) |
| Getting Started with Open Source | [GDG Lisbon meetup](https://www.meetup.com/gdglisbon/events/254345727/) | 20 Sep '18 | [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/getting-started-with-open-source) |
| Google Summer of Code Final Demo (Mentorship System) | [Systers GSoC 2018 Final Demos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhVJyXjT75i_T-F70O0DGfz_Fu9aBpnI6) | 12 Aug '18 | [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xRZrdR47R-w) / [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/mentorship-system-gsoc-2018) |

⬆️ Talks are ordered from the most recent to the oldest one.

### Journey as a Google Summer of Code student 
**[Systers TechTalks (webinar)](http://www.cvent.com/events/systers-techtalks-journey-as-a-google-summer-of-code-student/event-summary-87be2bd07b694fc6ac41a63045b297b6.aspx) / Remote / March 7th, 2019 / [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/journey-as-a-google-summer-of-code-student-with-systers)**

In this talk, I shared my experience as a Google Summer of Code student with Systers Open Source community, since I applied this community until I finished the program and remained in the community as a maintainer. I shared the process of getting prepared to apply and then how the actual program was after being accepted. I also showed how I contributed to Systers Open Source community with more than code, because Open Source is not just about code and has a place for everyone.

### Teach yourself Programming
**[AnitaB.org Community Webinar](https://community.anitab.org/event/anitab-org-community-webinar-teach-yourself-programming/) / Remote / February 24th, 2019**

In this webinar I had the pleasure to do the talk together with Aliaksandra Sankova (LinkedIn link). We talk about how to teach yourself programming for free, sharing multiple resources for different types of learners and coding paths one can take. We also discussed how to prepare for interviews and about how to get started with contributing to Open Source. In the end we hosted a Q&A session.

### Doing Open Source as a Contributor and a Maintainer
**[DevFest Porto (conference)](http://devfest.gdgporto.xyz) / Porto, Portugal / January 26th, 2019 / [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/doing-open-source-as-a-contributor-and-maintainer)**

From contributing to Open Source, as a contributor, I had to work on projects I didn’t know much about, as a maintainer I had to make sure the project was ready and for other contributors. In this talk, I shared my learnings and perspective from working in Open Source is in both sides, while sharing some tips on how to start contributing to a new project and keeping a project beginner friendly.

### Getting Started with Open Source
**[GDG Lisbon Sessions #22 (meetup)](https://www.meetup.com/pt-BR/gdglisbon/events/254345727/) / Lisbon, Portugal / September 20th, 2018 / [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/getting-started-with-open-source)**

I talked about how to get into Open Source. I shared resources, types of projects, how to actually contribute to a project, and talked about how anyone can contribute to Open Source without having to know how to code.

### Google Summer of Code Final Demo (Mentorship System)
**[Systers GSoC 2018 Final Demos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhVJyXjT75i_T-F70O0DGfz_Fu9aBpnI6) / Remote / August 12th, 2018 / [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/isabelcmdcosta/mentorship-system-gsoc-2018) / [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xRZrdR47R-w)**

This webinar was the final demonstration of my work during Google Summer of Code 2018. I presented this live on Youtube. I talked about what I developed during the summer and my experience with Systers Community.
