work.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: 🛠️ Work
permalink: /work/
---

You can see my open sourced projects on [GitHub](https://github.com/isabelcosta) and my professional experience on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/isabelcmdcosta).

## 💼 Professional experience

- **Dec, 2018 - Now:** Software Developer at Impresa;
- **Apr, 2018 - Ago, 2018:** Student Developer for Google Summer of Code 2018 with Systers Community;
- **Feb, 2016 - Apr, 2018:** Android Developer at Innovation Makers;
- **Jul, 2015 - Sep, 2015:** Software Engineering summer intern at Uniplaces.

## 🚧 Projects

### Mentorship System

This is a project I proposed for Google Summer of Code program that I participated on 2018.

This summer I was a [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com) Student with [Systers Community](https://github.com/systers). I proposed [Mentorship System](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/archive/2018/projects/6592097335377920/), a mentorship application to help women in tech mentor each other, on career development topics, during a certain period of time. I worked with mentors, the Systers Open Source community.

I started with the Backend REST API development, using python and flask. After 2 months designing and implementing the backend I started implementing the Android application with Kotlin.

Repositories on GitHub:
- Backend application: [systers/mentorship-backend](https://github.com/systers/mentorship-backend);
- Android application: [systers/mentorship-android](https://github.com/systers/mentorship-android).

I documented my journey with 1 blog per week on [Isabel Costa GSoC Medium publication](https://medium.com/isabel-costa-gsoc). 

### Personal Website

Usually, I use Jekyll based websites, to facilitate the development through using Markdown files and without having to do much frontend work. I'm using [jekyll/minima](https://github.com/jekyll/minima) template on this website.

These are the different versions of my websites until this current one:
- **1st version:** [Live](http://isabelcosta.github.io/personal-website-first-version) and on [GitHub](http://github.com/isabelcosta/personal-website-first-version);
- **2nd version:** [Live](http://isabelcosta.github.io/personal-website-second-version) and on [GitHub](https://github.com/isabelcosta/personal-website-second-version);
- **3rd version:** this website right here :) and on [GitHub](https://github.com/isabelcosta/isabelcosta.github.io).

### Smart Home Android app

Smart Home project was developed within the Ambient Intelligence course context (from feb to may 2017). In this course I could pick any idea for the main project, as long as it was related with intelligent environments. So I decided to do an Android application suited for tablet to manage intelligent devices in a house. I wanted this application to be easy to use and accessible to people of all ages, including elderly people. So I tried to design a very simple interface so that someone could easily control home devices.

I developed planned and designed all the features. I used Model View Presenter architecture on the android app. I also implemented a very simple REST API with java.

All code and user interface designs can be found at [isabelcosta/smart-home-project](https://github.com/isabelcosta/smart-home-project) GitHub repository.

Commit message:

Update work.md with MSc thesis

work.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: 🛠️ Work
permalink: /work/
---

You can see my **open sourced projects** on [GitHub](https://github.com/isabelcosta) and my **professional experience** on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/isabelcmdcosta).

## 💼 Professional experience

- **Dec, 2018 - Now:** Software Developer at Impresa;
- **Apr, 2018 - Ago, 2018:** Google Summer of Code 2018 student with Systers Community;
- **Feb, 2016 - Apr, 2018:** Android Developer at Innovation Makers;
- **Jul, 2015 - Sep, 2015:** Software Engineering intern at Uniplaces.

## 🚧 Projects

### Mentorship System

This is a project I proposed for Google Summer of Code program that I participated on 2018.

This summer I was a [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com) Student with [Systers Community](https://github.com/systers). I proposed [Mentorship System](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/archive/2018/projects/6592097335377920/), a mentorship application to help women in tech mentor each other, on career development topics, during a certain period of time. I worked with mentors, the Systers Open Source community.

I started with the Backend REST API development, using python and flask. After 2 months designing and implementing the backend I started implementing the Android application with Kotlin.

Repositories on GitHub:
- Backend application: [systers/mentorship-backend](https://github.com/systers/mentorship-backend);
- Android application: [systers/mentorship-android](https://github.com/systers/mentorship-android).

I documented my journey with 1 blog per week on [Isabel Costa GSoC Medium publication](https://medium.com/isabel-costa-gsoc). 

Links: [Initial GSoC Proposal]() / [Mentorship System on GSoC website](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/archive/2018/projects/6592097335377920/) / [GSoC Journal on Medium](https://medium.com/isabel-costa-gsoc) / [Final Demo of my work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xRZrdR47R-w)


### PREMIUM - Private Reactive Multipath Communication Middleware (MSc Thesis)

I developed my MSc thesis "PREMIUM: Private Reactive Multipath Communication Middleware" in the context of the [SafeCloud](https://www.safecloud-project.eu/) project, within the Distributed Systems research group of [INESC-ID](https://www.inesc-id.pt/). The prototype combines multipath communication and route monitoring to react to hijacking attacks.

To develop the prototype for my thesis, I worked with two previous master thesis' projects - MACHETE, a multipath communication mechanism, and Darshana, route hijacking detection system. I refactored these projects, fixed bugs, implemented new features that were needed for my Dissertation project. I also created documentation for these.
I used the modified versions of these prototypes and implemented new modules to integrate them.

Tech stack and tools: C, Java, Python, VirtualBox, Google Cloud, git, GitHub, Linux (Debian)

Code is available at [inesc-id/Premium](https://github.com/inesc-id/Premium) on GitHub.

### Personal Website

Usually, I use Jekyll based websites, to facilitate the development through using Markdown files and without having to do much frontend work. I'm using [jekyll/minima](https://github.com/jekyll/minima) template on this website.

These are the different versions of my websites until this current one:
- **1st version:** [Live](http://isabelcosta.github.io/personal-website-first-version) and on [GitHub](http://github.com/isabelcosta/personal-website-first-version);
- **2nd version:** [Live](http://isabelcosta.github.io/personal-website-second-version) and on [GitHub](https://github.com/isabelcosta/personal-website-second-version);
- **3rd version:** this website right here :) and on [GitHub](https://github.com/isabelcosta/isabelcosta.github.io).

### Smart Home Android app

Smart Home project was developed within the Ambient Intelligence course context (from feb to may 2017). In this course I could pick any idea for the main project, as long as it was related with intelligent environments. So I decided to do an Android application suited for tablet to manage intelligent devices in a house. I wanted this application to be easy to use and accessible to people of all ages, including elderly people. So I tried to design a very simple interface so that someone could easily control home devices.

I developed planned and designed all the features. I used Model View Presenter architecture on the android app. I also implemented a very simple REST API with java.

All code and user interface designs can be found at [isabelcosta/smart-home-project](https://github.com/isabelcosta/smart-home-project) GitHub repository.
